README.md, before:

# Conversation Analysis Tool

A tool for analyzing conversation history by clustering topics and visualizing trends.

## 📝 Featured In

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://muddlemap.substack.com/p/what-i-learned-from-analyzing-2-years" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Blog-Read%20the%20Detailed%20Tutorial-blue?style=for-the-badge" alt="Read the Blog" />
  </a>
  
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/posts/manojkurien1_what-i-learned-from-analyzing-2-years-of-activity-7313825166885568512-ac85?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAABtF5ukBcRFWTr7DSFDFQ8nfIva8QIdeB4o" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-See%20%20Highlights-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin" alt="LinkedIn Post" />
  </a>
</div>

## ✨ Features

- Clusters conversations into topics using K-means
- Generates visualizations of conversation trends
- Extracts keywords for automatic topic labeling
- Supports multiple data formats via extensible loader interface

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the tool
python cluster_conversations.py

# Or run with sample data (easier for first-time users)
python cluster_conversations.py --sample
```

The tool will:
1. Process files from the `inputs` directory (or `sample_input` when using --sample)
2. Create output in a timestamped directory (`outputs/run_{timestamp}`) or in the `sample_output` directory (when using --sample)
3. Generate visualizations and data exports

## 📊 Sample Data

A sample dataset is included in `sample_input/sample_conversations.json` for testing or as a template. Use the `--sample` flag to run the tool with this data.

## ⚙️ Configuration

Edit the `Config` class in `cluster_conversations.py` to customize:
- Input/output directories
- Clustering parameters
- Visualization settings

## 📁 Directory Structure

```
project/
├── inputs/                           # Standard input files
├── loaders/                          # Data loader modules
│   ├── __init__.py                   # Module initialization
│   ├── base.py                       # Base loader interface
│   ├── chatgpt.py                    # ChatGPT loader implementation
│   └── factory.py                    # Loader factory and validation
├── sample_input/                     # Sample input files for demo
│   └── sample_conversations.json     # Sample template
├── outputs/                          # Generated results
│   └── run_YYYY-MM-DD_HH-MM-SS/      # Timestamped run
├── sample_output/                    # Sample output directory for demo
└── cluster_conversations.py          # Main script
```

> **Note:** The `inputs` and `outputs` directories are designed to be git-ignored, making it easy to exclude both your personal conversation data and all generated analysis files from version control.

## 📋 Output Files

The tool generates several outputs:
- CSV files with clustered data and trends
- Visualizations of topic clusters and trends
- Silhouette score plots for cluster optimization

## 🔌 Adding New Data Formats

Implement the `ConversationLoader` interface to support additional data formats:

```python
# In a new file in the loaders directory, e.g. loaders/my_format.py
from typing import Any, Dict, List
import pandas as pd
from loaders.base import ConversationLoader

class MyFormatLoader(ConversationLoader):
    def load_data(self, files: List[str]) -> List[Dict[str, Any]]:
        # Load raw data from files
        pass
        
    def process_data(self, raw_data: List[Dict[str, Any]]) -> pd.DataFrame:
        # Process the raw data into a structured DataFrame
        # Must return a DataFrame with at least these columns:
        # - conversation_id: Unique identifier
        # - text: Text content for analysis
        # - create_time: Unix timestamp
        pass
```

Then register your loader in the factory.py file:

```python
# In loaders/factory.py
from loaders.my_format import MyFormatLoader

def get_loader(format_name: str) -> ConversationLoader:
    loaders = {
        "chatgpt": ChatGPTLoader,
        "my_format": MyFormatLoader,  # Add your new loader here
    }
    # ...
```

## 🤖 ChatGPT Conversations Format

The tool is compatible with the ChatGPT conversation export format. To use your ChatGPT conversations:

1. Export your data from [chat.openai.com](https://chat.openai.com/)
2. Place the `conversations.json` file in the `inputs` directory

The expected JSON structure is:
```json
[
  {
    "conversation_id": "conversation_id_string",
    "title": "Conversation Title",
    "create_time": 1677649200,  // Unix timestamp
    "mapping": {
      "node_1": {  // uuid of a node in this conversation
        "message": {
          "author": {
            "role": "user"  // or "assistant"
          },
          "content": {
            "parts": [
              "Message text content here"
            ]
          }
        }
      },
      // More messages...
    }
  },
  // More conversations...
]
```

The loader automatically extracts all relevant data from this structure to analyze your ChatGPT conversations.

## 📄 License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Refactor: Extract config module
Prior to this change, configuration was within the main file.

This change extracts it to make it easier to read/adjust.

README.md, after:

# Conversation Analysis Tool

A tool for analyzing conversation history by clustering topics and visualizing trends.

## 📝 Featured In

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://muddlemap.substack.com/p/what-i-learned-from-analyzing-2-years" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Blog-Read%20the%20Detailed%20Tutorial-blue?style=for-the-badge" alt="Read the Blog" />
  </a>
  
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/posts/manojkurien1_what-i-learned-from-analyzing-2-years-of-activity-7313825166885568512-ac85?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAABtF5ukBcRFWTr7DSFDFQ8nfIva8QIdeB4o" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-See%20%20Highlights-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin" alt="LinkedIn Post" />
  </a>
</div>

## ✨ Features

- Clusters conversations into topics using K-means
- Generates visualizations of conversation trends
- Extracts keywords for automatic topic labeling
- Supports multiple data formats via extensible loader interface

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the tool
python cluster_conversations.py

# Or run with sample data (easier for first-time users)
python cluster_conversations.py --sample
```

The tool will:
1. Process files from the `inputs` directory (or `sample_input` when using --sample)
2. Create output in a timestamped directory (`outputs/run_{timestamp}`) or in the `sample_output` directory (when using --sample)
3. Generate visualizations and data exports

## 📊 Sample Data

A sample dataset is included in `sample_input/sample_conversations.json` for testing or as a template. Use the `--sample` flag to run the tool with this data.

## ⚙️ Configuration

The `Config` class in the `config` module handles all configuration settings. To customize:

- Input/output directories
- Clustering parameters
- Visualization settings

Edit the `config/config.py` file to adjust these settings.

## 📁 Directory Structure

```
project/
├── config/                           # Configuration module
│   ├── __init__.py                   # Module initialization
│   └── config.py                     # Configuration class definition
├── inputs/                           # Standard input files
├── loaders/                          # Data loader modules
│   ├── __init__.py                   # Module initialization
│   ├── base.py                       # Base loader interface
│   ├── chatgpt.py                    # ChatGPT loader implementation
│   └── factory.py                    # Loader factory and validation
├── sample_input/                     # Sample input files for demo
│   └── sample_conversations.json     # Sample template
├── outputs/                          # Generated results
│   └── run_YYYY-MM-DD_HH-MM-SS/      # Timestamped run
├── sample_output/                    # Sample output directory for demo
└── cluster_conversations.py          # Main script
```

> **Note:** The `inputs` and `outputs` directories are designed to be git-ignored, making it easy to exclude both your personal conversation data and all generated analysis files from version control.

## 📋 Output Files

The tool generates several outputs:
- CSV files with clustered data and trends
- Visualizations of topic clusters and trends
- Silhouette score plots for cluster optimization

## 🔌 Adding New Data Formats

Implement the `ConversationLoader` interface to support additional data formats:

```python
# In a new file in the loaders directory, e.g. loaders/my_format.py
from typing import Any, Dict, List
import pandas as pd
from loaders.base import ConversationLoader

class MyFormatLoader(ConversationLoader):
    def load_data(self, files: List[str]) -> List[Dict[str, Any]]:
        # Load raw data from files
        pass
        
    def process_data(self, raw_data: List[Dict[str, Any]]) -> pd.DataFrame:
        # Process the raw data into a structured DataFrame
        # Must return a DataFrame with at least these columns:
        # - conversation_id: Unique identifier
        # - text: Text content for analysis
        # - create_time: Unix timestamp
        pass
```

Then register your loader in the factory.py file:

```python
# In loaders/factory.py
from loaders.my_format import MyFormatLoader

def get_loader(format_name: str) -> ConversationLoader:
    loaders = {
        "chatgpt": ChatGPTLoader,
        "my_format": MyFormatLoader,  # Add your new loader here
    }
    # ...
```

## 🤖 ChatGPT Conversations Format

The tool is compatible with the ChatGPT conversation export format. To use your ChatGPT conversations:

1. Export your data from [chat.openai.com](https://chat.openai.com/)
2. Place the `conversations.json` file in the `inputs` directory

The expected JSON structure is:
```json
[
  {
    "conversation_id": "conversation_id_string",
    "title": "Conversation Title",
    "create_time": 1677649200,  // Unix timestamp
    "mapping": {
      "node_1": {  // uuid of a node in this conversation
        "message": {
          "author": {
            "role": "user"  // or "assistant"
          },
          "content": {
            "parts": [
              "Message text content here"
            ]
          }
        }
      },
      // More messages...
    }
  },
  // More conversations...
]
```

The loader automatically extracts all relevant data from this structure to analyze your ChatGPT conversations.

## 📄 License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
